# Assignment

- [Setup](#setup)
- [Testing Your Code](#testing-your-code)
  - [npm test](#npm-test)
  - [How To Read Tests](#how-to-read-tests)
  - [Submitting On Time](#submitting-on-time)
  - [playground.js](#playgroundjs)
- [Tasks](#tasks)
  - [Problem 1 - Calculate Total Sum:](#problem-1---calculate-total-sum)
  - [Problem 2 — Reverse a String:](#problem-2--reverse-a-string)
  - [Problem 3 — Fibonnaci Sequence:](#problem-3--fibonnaci-sequence)
  - [Problem 4 — Binary Search:](#problem-4--binary-search)

## Setup

For guidance on setting up and submitting this assignment, refer to the Marcy lab School Docs How-To guide for [Working with Short Response and Coding Assignments](https://marcylabschool.gitbook.io/marcy-lab-school-docs/fullstack-curriculum/how-tos/working-with-assignments#how-to-work-on-assignments).

After cloning your repository, make sure to run the following commands:

```sh
npm i
git checkout -b draft
npm t
```

## Testing Your Code

### npm test

Before submitting your code, make sure you got things right by running the provided automated tests.

You can do this using the commands:

```sh
npm test # run the automated tests
npm run test:w # run the automated tests and rerun them each time you save a change
```

You will know that you have "completed" an assignment once you have passed 75% or more of the automated tests!

### How To Read Tests

All tests are made up of `expect()` statements that must all be true in order for the test to pass.

Remember, when reading tests ask yourself:
* How is the test using my code? What inputs are being provided to my functions?
* What is the test expecting my function to return?
* Is the test expecting my function to produce any side effects (printing something to the console, modifying the passed-in array, etc...)?

### Submitting On Time

You have to understand that "grades" don't exist at Marcy. We only need performance data in order to know how you're doing, and make sure the people who need help get it as quickly as they can. It's ok if you didn't finish by the deadline! Just show us what you have. We'll have office hours and reviews, and we want to know what you are all struggling with so we can use those meetings effectively. **This is not about grades, its about seeing what you know, and where we can help!**

### playground.js

The most straightforward way to test your code is to test your code by hand as you work. Invoke your functions and use `console.log()` to print out the results. Then, `cd` into the `src/` directory and use the `node <file_name>` command to run your JavaScript files. 

You can also create what's called a "playground" (or "sandbox") file where you import any code you need, and then mess around with that file. We've included one in the `src` directory so you can see it. Run that program using `node src/playground.js`.

## Tasks

**Use <u>Recursion</u> to solve the following problems (unless otherwise stated).**

### Problem 1 - Calculate Total Sum: 
This interview question requires you to return the running total or sum. Make sure to think of the base case here and make sure you use recursion to accomplish this! Do not use iteration.

```js
getTotal([1, 2, 3])    // 6
getTotal([2, 4, 6])    // 12
getTotal([2, 2, 2, 2]) // 8
getTotal([])           // 0
```

### Problem 2 — Reverse a String:

This interview question requires you to reverse a string using recursion. Make sure to think of the base case here and make sure you use recursion to accomplish this! Do not use iteration.
```js
reverse('recursion!') // !noisrucer
reverse('madam')      // madam
```

### Problem 3 — Fibonnaci Sequence:

Implement a Fibonnaci Sequence in two different ways - iteratively (using a `for`/`while` loop) and recursively. 

* Remember the fibonacci sequence `0,1,1,2,3,5,8,13,21,...`. Each number is generated by taking the previous two numbers and adding them together.
* For the purpose of this assignment, the `0th` number is `0` and the `1st` number is `1`. 
* Your function should take in a number `n` and return the `nth` number in the Fibonnaci Sequence. 
* For example, the `fibIter` function should behave like this:

```js
fibIter(0) // returns 0
fibIter(1) // returns 1
fibIter(2) // returns 1
fibIter(3) // returns 2
fibIter(4) // returns 3
fibIter(5) // returns 5
fibIter(6) // returns 8
fibIter(7) // returns 13
```

* `fibRec` should behave the same way!

### Problem 4 — Binary Search:

Write a recursive function called `binarySearch` that takes in two parameters: and array `arr` and a number `target` to find in the array. The function returns the index of `target` in the array `arr`, or `-1` if it can't find `target`.

> Hint: This function may also require other parameters. Look it up!

For Example:
```js
const arr = [2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16];
const target1 = 8;
const target2 = 12;
const target3 = 7;

console.log(binarySearch(arr, target1)); // 3: index of target1 in arr)
console.log(binarySearch(arr, target2)); // 5: index of target2 in arr)
console.log(binarySearch(arr, target3)); // -1: target3 not found in arr
```

In these examples:

- We have a sorted array `arr`.
- We're searching for three different targets: `target1`, `target2`, and `target3`.
- The first two calls find the targets (`8` and `12`) in the array and return their respective indices.
- The third call searches for `7`, which is not present in the array, so it returns `-1`.
